
# Nameless Labyrinth

The nameless stone labyrinth consisted, for the most part, of
walls from ten to one hundred and fifty feet in ice-clear height,
and of a thickness varying from five to ten feet. It was composed
mostly of prodigious blocks of dark primordial slate, schist, and
sandstone—blocks in many cases as large as 4 x 6 x 8 feet—though
in several places it seemed to be carved out of a solid, uneven
bed rock of pre-Cambrian slate. The buildings were far from equal
in size, there being innumerable honeycomb arrangements of
enormous extent as well as smaller separate structures. The
general shape of these things tended to be conical, pyramidal, or
terraced; though there were many perfect cylinders, perfect
cubes, clusters of cubes, and other rectangular forms, and a
peculiar sprinkling of angled edifices whose five-pointed ground
plan roughly suggested modern fortifications. The builders had
made constant and expert use of the principle of the arch, and
domes had probably existed in the city's heyday.

The whole tangle was monstrously weathered, and the glacial
surface from which the towers projected was strewn with fallen
blocks and immemorial debris. Where the glaciation was
transparent we could see the lower parts of the gigantic piles,
and we noticed the ice-preserved stone bridges which connected
the different towers at varying distances above the ground. On
the exposed walls we could detect the scarred places where other
and higher bridges of the same sort had existed. Closer
inspection revealed countless largish windows; some of which were
closed with shutters of a petrified material originally wood,
though most gaped open in a sinister and menacing fashion. Many
of the ruins, of course, were roofless, and with uneven though
wind-rounded upper edges; whilst others, of a more sharply
conical or pyramidal model or else protected by higher
surrounding structures, preserved intact outlines despite the
omnipresent crumbling and pitting. With the field glass we could
barely make out what seemed to be sculptural decorations in
horizontal bands—decorations including those curious groups of
dots whose presence on the ancient soapstones now assumed a
vastly larger significance.

